# home+ Hardware Controls
## Serial Inputs
In order to control the positions of the base and arm joints, the user should send a message through the serial port connected to the Arduino via USB cable. The interface is designed to receive serial messages either through the Serial Monitor in the Arduino IDE, or through an external script configured to send messages through the appropriate serial port on the user's device. The serial message should adhere to the following format: "%f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f %f". The serial message should be a series of ten floats, with each float separated by a single space. Sequentially, each float represents the absolute position* of the following:
1. The position (cm) of the base in the x-axis. The positive x-axis, from the perspective of the base center, is in the direction of the arm.
2. The position (cm) of the base in the y-axis. The positive y-axis, from the perspective of the base center, is in the direction to the left of the arm.
3. The orientation (degrees) of the base. A positive translation in the orientation axis, viewing from the top, is counterclockwise.
4. The configuration of the gripper. This is a value between 0 and 90, with 0 mapping to fully closed and 90 mapping to fully opened, the range of motion being about 90 degrees.
5. The configuration of the "hand" servo, rotating the end effector around the axis through the center of the "wrist" joint. This is a value between -90 and 75 (degrees). 0 represents the hand pointing directly away from arm 2. (I'm not sure which direction is which)
6. The configuration of the "wrist" servo, rotating the end effector around the axis through the length of the "forearm" segment. This is a value between -80 and 340 (degrees) (we have recently limited this to be from -80 to 80). 0 reprsents the "palm" (the bottom flat side of the gripper) having the ability to be parallel to the ground given a certain hand position (might not sound intuative but if the wrist is rotated slightly that parallel potential no longer exists). I positive value is clockwise, a negative value is counterclockwise (when viewed from the top and )
7. The configuration of the "elbow" servo, rotating the end effector around the "elbow" joint. This is a value between -73 and 168 (degrees). 0 represents a 0 degree angle with the first arm.
8. The configuration of the "shoulder" servo, rotating the end effector around the "shoulder" joint, which is mounted to the top of the center linear actuator (NOTE: *Linear Actuator was removed. Now just mounted to the base directly). This is a value between -45 and 140 (degrees). 0 corresponds to arm 1 being at a 45 degree angle to the ground. A negative value swings the arm down, and a positive value swings the arm up.
9. (*NOTE: the linear actuator was removed) The height (mm) of the linear actuator within the frame. The assumption is made that the linear actuator begins at the fully extended position (440 mm above the bottom of the actuator, or 435mm above the lowest position), because the robot lacks an absolute encoder for the height of the linear actuator. If this assumption is false, and it is starting at the bottom of the frame, uncomment line 100, which sets la_pos to 0. If it is in the middle, change the code around to get it two one of the extremes and then change the code back. The input should be a value between 0 and 435.
10. The height (mm) of the linear actuator that translates the height of the frame. The assumption is made that the linear actuator begins at the fully retracted position (0 mm reference point or 25mm above the bottom of the actuator), because the robot lacks an absolute encoder for the height of the linear actuator. If this assumption is false, and it is starting at the top of the frame, uncomment line 104, which sets frame_pos to 150. If it is in the middle, change the code around to get it two one of the extremes and then change the code back. The input should be a value between 0 and 150 (height above bottom of actuator is 25-175mm).
* The absolute position of the base assumes that the origin---the position at which (x,y,θ) = (0,0,0)---is the position at which the Arduino is powered on.